R.D. Brown. Dr. Billy Tremere has asked me to give a
brief rundown on my background before reflecting
on my association with Dr. U.E. Mourning.
I grew up on a farm in Callahan County near Putnam,
Texas, which is 35 miles east of Abilene. Our
county is a farming and ranching economy with
limited oil and gas production. My family
consisted of my parents, one brother, and one
sister, both younger than I. My parents were
hardworking, quality people who believed in
teaching their children to work and be
productive. We were given regular test at a early
age to perform.
With the understanding that these duties were a
must and some. Form of punishment.
Would result if these duties. Weren't carried
out.
They always compliment us on on a job well done. We
were a happy family due to the quality of our
parents. Study and education.
Was it must? And we knew the reason why. They
impressed us with the idea that a college
education was necessary in order to make the most
of our opportunities in life.
I graduated from high school in 1935. The Great
Depression was in full bloom and the family funds
were not available at that time to assist me in
college. My dad asked me to stay and help him with
reducing the family debt. For three years I worked
on the family farms and on the on community farms
and ranches and in the oil fields of West Texas.
With the family debt under control, I enrolled at
A&M in pre-veterinary medicine. In September of
38, I was assigned to A Company Infantry Corps
Cadets.
Texas A&M College The core cadets. Hazing and life
in general. Was a different ball game for me.
I learned to take the hazing. And I enjoyed all
forms. Of college life from the first day on. The
discipline was great. Fish and sophomores had
better be in their rooms studying at 7 PM. We were
given a short time, about two days to remember. The
names of our. Organization upperclassmen. After
the grace period. Should you not remember the
upperclassmen name? He would spell it out on your
butt. with one before board, which every
upperclassman had at least one. This procedure
was effective in name recall.
Usually better study habits were formed
early on in college and under this environment.
They were always upperclassmen available for at
least minor tutoring and other study help and
advice. I am glad that I had the opportunity to go to
A&M and be in the Corps of Cadets.
After getting adjusted to college life my
freshman year, I felt like I was ready to enter the
School of Veterinary Medicine. Uh, with any
without any apprehension. I was a little bit
surprised and that anatomy and physiology were so
difficult.
But managed to survive. I had to study hard. But got
by and stayed in school. Had some great teachers
during those years. to name a few, Dr. Lang, Eads,
Burns, Leonard, Dunn, Miliff, Armstead, and
Turk, to name a few. I got by those three years in
pretty good shape, and at the end of the spring 42
semesters, I had received a ROTC infantry
commission,
And reported for active duty a few weeks later. At
Camp Walters near Middle Wells, TX. An infantry
replacement training center. I have trained
bases there for six months. I was then transferred
to Puerto Rico. Arriving there 3rd January 43. And
assigned to infantry troops there. Didn't make it
back to the. The States until April 6th, 46 without
firing a shot for record.
After. Receiving my discharge at Fort Sam. I
joined my parents at home. And stayed. Until. June
of 40. 6
and return. to A&M to complete my last two
semesters in the School of Veterinary Medicine.
I was surprised to see so many of my old profs still
around. Also, there were many of my former
classmates and friends back to finish their
formal education.
Time passed in a hurry and graduation was at hand.
The last week of the semester was a busy one. We took
some final examinations, the state board, and
attended a TVMA convention in Houston.
I skipped graduation ceremonies and headed for
home. My license and diploma caught up with me
later.
I found a temporary job in Abilene at a mixed
practice.
After spending six weeks in the mixed practice in
Abilene, I accepted a job with Dr. U.E. Morney at
the Alamo Dog and Cat Hospital in San Antonio. I
reported for duty on March 12, 1947. One
of my former classmates, Dr. Richard Culpepper,
had been with Dr. Morney since late 1943.
Dr. Morney was born November the 1st, 1882,
grew up on a farm in Kansas, was graduated from
Kansas City Veterinary College in 1912 at the age
of 29. I'm not sure what his employment was
immediately after graduation, but eventually
became associated with a biological company that
produced serums and Black Lake vaccines. About
sometime in 1916.
And he moved to San Antonio to establish a branch of
his biological firm. And set up shop. At 1600
Pleasanton Rd. This business later closed
because of lack of revenue and Dr. Marnie ended up
with the land and the buildings. He remodeled the
buildings and established an exclusive small
animal practice in 1922. Apparently the practice
was an immediate success
He had an ambulance service, hospital
facilities, laboratory, and also he had an
ambulance service that would pick up a small
animal anywhere in the city for a small fee.
He had an office hour from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m., six days a
week. a staff available on Sundays and holidays
for emergency,
for emergency services. The practice remained a
small animal only until the early 30s, and due to
the depression economics, it became a mixed
practice and remained So until the mid 50s. At that
time. The practice again became small animal
only.
And talking to Richard before. Reporting for duty
the first day.
I learned that Doctor morning that not. Do any
practice? Or any work of any kind. But be assured he
knew what. What's going on around the practice?
Miss Marty was in charge of the bookkeeping. And
supervising supervise the office. In a highly
efficient manner.
The first morning on the job. About mid morning. I
was being briefed in the business office. On
office procedures when Doctor morning made his
appearance.
Is a. Attire was something I hadn't. Quite
expected. He had owner. A gambler type celluloid
visor. Addressed in pajamas. A bathrobe. And
rubber boots. This is why this was his usual attire
when he made his appearance.
In the mornings. Sometimes he had substitute the.
A long white lab coat for the bathrobe.
To say that Dr. Morney was frugal
would be the understatement of the century.
A few times I've been with him in a cafe, he would
order a child's plate. When refused, he may or may
not order anything else. If he did order, he asked
for separate checks He paid for his meal and I paid
for mine.
There were. Drugs. That he and supplies that he
would not purchase. For the practice.
His anesthetic of choices.
Excuse me, his anesthetic of choice was. chloral
hydrate or ether or chloroform. Take your pick.
Richard and I purchased Nemitol, adhesive tape,
splint supplies and numerous other items for use
in the hospital out of our funds.
He. He prepared his own small animal ration.
Which consisted of fresh horse meat. Fresh
vegetable. Such as cabbage, carrots, potatoes,
spinach, lettuce and so forth. And wheat brand was
added for book. One of the one of the employees was
designated as chef. He prepared the ration by
cutting up the ingredients, mixing, and cooking
the mixture in an old-fashioned black wash pot on a
wood fire. He made enough to last several days and
stored it in a walk-in freezer.
These were a few examples of Dr. Morningford's but
he was not all bad. He had many good qualities. He
was completely honest, a good citizen, and in his
own way, a good professional person.
He was very good to his veterinarian and backed him
in every way he could.
He belonged to the Veterinary Medical
Association of Bexar County, TVMA, and the AVMA.
He'd been president of the local association and
TVMA and had served on numerous committees in the
AVMA.
He encouraged his his DVMs to become active in
association affairs and pay their dues in the
three associations.
He attended many of the national association AVMA
meetings, conventions, also most of the Texas
meetings, and just about all of the Bexar County
meetings.
Sometime during the fall of 47, Dr. Morney
informed Richard and I that he was planning on
retiring at an early date. Should we be interested
in purchasing the practice and all the property
involved,
So we indicated and he'd get back to us with a
contract in a very short time. We told him we were
interested and within a few days he had the
contract.
It seemed like the national debt to us at the time.
But we realized it was a. It was very reasonable and
so. We shook hands with him. And and made the deal.
And on January the 1st of 48, Richard and I became
the new owners of the Alamo Dog and Cat Cat Hospital
and Doctor and Miss Morning finished moving to
their home recently purchased in our
neighborhood.
He didn't stay away too long as he was back the next
day for a visit.
And it so happened that he was back each day for as
long as he lived. That is each work day when he was in
town.
The 1959 AVM a convention was to be held in Kansas
City, Missouri. And Doctor morning wasn't about
to miss being there since it was close to his old
Kansas home. And near his alma mater. The Kansas
City Veterinary College. KCVC had been. Close. In
1918. But there were a lot of his old classmates and
friends still located nearby. And he was anxious
to see him. He came by the hospital before he left.
It was very evident that he wasn't feeling well. He
admitted he was feeling punk, but as soon as he got
on the road, he'd get on the road. Well, he'd he'd
feel alright.
He left San Antone the next day by car against the
advice. Of his position.
And against the wishes. Of mid morning. but he was
intent on going and told her that he'd make it all
right. By the time they arrived in Kansas City and
checked in a hotel,
his condition had worsened and it was termed very
serious. After a brief exam, by the hotel
physician. He was sent by ambulance to Kansas City
Hospital. Where diffused peritonitis was
diagnosed. And. Was caused by duodenal. Ruptured
ulcer.
Exploratory surgery was performed.
At once. But to no avail as he died. 24 hours later.
Post surgery.
He was returned. Home.
He had an appropriate. Funeral.
In his church. The Holland L Baptist Church.
He had 8
pallbearers, all veterinarians.
His funeral was well attended.
And with. Many veterinarians in attendance.
He was buried at in Mission Park South. which is 2
1â„2 miles from the hospital, veterinary
hospital, that he loves so well. The inscription
on his grave marker reads as simple, Erd Eli
Morney, DVM, November 1, 1882, dash 8, or beg your
pardon, August 24. 1959. He is
still being missed.
Dr Gerald Parker. A former classmate of ours.
Joined our partnership. And practice. In October
of 48.
He brought with him some much needed professional
help, expertise and stability. With him in the
partnership, we were able to expand our
professional operations. Also, we were able to
pay Dr. Morney off in six and a half years after we
took over.
In the latter part of May 64, The partnership
purchased the Highland Animal Hospital. I was
designated to operate the hospital. We moved in
June 1, 64, and took over the practice. We sold the
practice to the new owner, and he took over
February 1, 86. I retired from active practice on
that date. In 1967, the partnership built the
Colony North Animal Hospital. Dr. Richard opened
the practice in late 67. He had had a heart attack in
64 but recovered well and was able to be back on duty
in about two months. He did well until late 69. His
condition worsened and he had his second heart
attack. Had a very slow recovery time. Should not
have been back. To work. But insisted. That he
worked. He had his third and last heart attack in
the early morning hours and died on May. 15th at
home.
His funeral was held in his Episcopal Church. To a
standing room only clock crowd. With just about
ever DVM in the city attended. His. Passing was a
great blow to all of us. He had, but he had the
hospital affairs in good order, which made the
transition. An easy one. One of our associates was
designated to operate. The hospital until Gerald
could take over. In October. Oh 72. Gerald still
operating the hospital at this time, but the time
doctor that lofts. A special kind of doctor is
published. He should be well retired. Someone.
Should give him a. A medal. or some kind of award for
putting up with me these 42 years.
This concludes my part of the dissertation. Thank
you.
Also, I would taken a course in speaking. Into a
cassette recorder.
But I enjoyed reflecting. All my association with
Doctor Morney. He was truly. A unique individual.
There was only one pattern. And there's
never been another liking.